- Previously on Cross...
- [Cross] I lost my wife Maria
a little over a year ago.
[Massey] We need you guys to take over
the Emir Goodspeed case.
Found dead in his car four days ago.
[Malika] Emir had a full head
of beautiful locks.
When they found him, they were shaved off.
[Cross] Whoever murdered Emir
had to change him
into someone else first. Why?
[Jared] Yeah, I don't understand
how a Black man can be a cop.
- [Sampson] Alex. Alex!
- I would feel like I was
- selling out my own people.
- Alex!
[Sampson] You need
to deal with losing Maria.
- [Cross] Hey, where did you get that?
- Mom's closet.
[Sampson] You think Maria's killer
snuck in your house,
put this in Maria's closet
for Damon to find?
- [gunshots]
- [Vanessa] Tavi!
[Massey] Tavio Lemmons was shot
in retaliation for killing Emir.
The only way to spin this
is to find the real killer.
- [Sampson] Sugar, you need to see this.
- [woman over phone] Would you like to know
the last thing your wife said
before she died?
Who is this?
We'll meet soon enough.
[Maria] ♪ I love you now ♪
♪ Do you love me still? ♪
♪ Only you have ♪
- ♪ Seen ♪
- [gunshot]
[gasps]
[thud in distance]
[dog barking in distance]
[door creaks]
[slow, suspenseful music playing]
♪ ♪
Don't move.
- [glass shatters]
- [gasps]
Alex. Alex!
I'm sorry, Daddy. I was thirsty.
[safety clicks]
[Nana Mama] Here.
You...
you t-take her back to bed, I'll...
I'll straighten up down here.
Hey. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, baby, I'm sorry.
Hey.
[Jannie] It's okay, Daddy.
[exhales]
♪ ♪
- [♪ Bill Withers: "Just the Two of Us"]
- [Jannie] Oh, he has another one.
- [Damon] I do not. I only did, like, two.
- [Sampson] Ooh.
First Black mayor of D.C.
Marion Barry.
- Yeah.
- Who?
Damon, Jannie. Come on, let's go.
Oh, oh, oh, Simba's mom.
- Uh... Nala.
- Ooh.
- Sarabi.
- Oh! Nice.
I thought you was gonna get shut out.
- [giggles] Mm.
- Mm-hmm.
- You want some of this?
- Get on out of here.
- Bye, Uncle John.
[chuckles]
Hey.
Uh, uh, uh.
All right. Get out of here.
Hey, Jannie.
Let me talk to you about last night.
It was my fault.
I should've stayed in my room
like I'm supposed to.
Baby girl, no.
No, not one bit of what happened
last night was your fault.
All right? I-I was, I was...
uh, worried about grown-up stuff, I...
I had no business scaring you like that.
You hear me?
Hm?
All right, now, y'all have a good day.
You make sure you have a good day,
you hear?
[both chuckle]
[door opens]
[Cross] Mm-hmm.
[Sampson] Seriously?
You put a gun on Jannie?
I know someone's been in my home.
All right? I hear a noise
in the middle of the night,
it's on me to keep this family safe.
Safe?
Uh, you do a psych eval on someone
who pulled what you pulled last night,
- you'd drive him
to Saint Elizabeth yourself.
- Hey, hold-hold up.
Hold on. Okay?
Was it my proudest moment, John? No.
Do I deserve a straitjacket?
You know, I don't have time to list
all the ways that you're wrong right now,
'cause the morgue called.
They went through Tavio's shit.
- Didn't find a phone.
- He had his phone on him
- when we caught him.
- I sent some unis over there
to search the scene.
He must have ditched it somewhere
between the apartment
and where he got shot.
They turned the place upside down
but didn't find anything.
All right, so Tavio
was Emir's last phone call,
and now they're both dead.
That phone is our only decent lead.
[indistinct chatter]
[Ramsey] Shannon? I'm Josh.
- You don't look like Josh.
- Sorry,
I don't mean to throw you for a loop.
Here's the thing:
I can't put my real photos on those apps
because the work that I do--
the spotlight can be... harsh.
Yeah. Bullshit. [chuckles]
Ugh. Why do married men always do this?
I'm not married. My last girlfriend--
the pressure got really intense,
and it's just easier
if I keep my private life
- private.
- Bet that's bullshit, too.
Hey, you know,
if you're gonna catfish people,
- you should get a better story.
- No, hey,
w-wait, wait, wait.
Uh, listen, I'm sorry.
I should have been honest. Okay?
I should have been.
Before you go, will you at least
let me buy you breakfast?
You can ask me anything you want.
And if, after that,
you never want to see me again,
I totally get it.
[exhales]
Look, you're already here.
What's it gonna hurt, right?
Fine, Josh.
[upbeat song playing]
♪ I've been hearing things...
- [Hightower] Good morning, Detectives.
- [Sampson] Oh, shit.
♪ Believe me, I know exactly...
You really got half the department
looking for a phone?
Did you follow us here?
Oh, I didn't have to.
See, you two need a half smoke
and a banana pudding to think straight.
She's speaking some truth there.
I know it's Tavio Lemmons' phone
that you want.
No comment. Nice boots, though.
Oh. Yeah, well, the saleswoman
said that the right color
fights seasonal depression,
but she had me at "50% off."
You had no choice.
- Right?
- [Cross] Look, hotshot.
We're eating lunch.
If you're not buying, then...
Wait, if it's Tavio's phone,
that means you think
he is somehow connected
to the Emir Goodspeed case.
No comment.
Which means you think
Tavio killed Goodspeed?
Or maybe-maybe whoever killed Tavio
killed Goodspeed as well.
- No comment.
- It's just that I've seen
the ballistics report,
and there's not a lot of thugs running
around Southeast with sniper rifles.
Who the hell
is giving you ballistics reports?
No comment.
[diner bell ringing]
We got to find a new spot.
- [people clamoring on video]
- [Massey] Both this video
and the outrage around it have gone viral.
We've got protestors
outside city hall day and night.
- And this thing
- [video pauses]
is on the verge of becoming
a George Floyd-level shitstorm.
Exactly what Anderson was hoping to avoid
- by putting you on the case.
- Anderson put a brother
on the case for show,
and everybody knows it.
[Massey] Well, now everybody's on it.
All the colors of the goddamn rainbow.
Only now we have to put a pin
in the Goodspeed case
and find out which crew shot Tavio.
It's the same case.
This isn't about drugs or beef.
Tavio was murdered
because he knew something about Emir.
Now, if we just had his phone...
Enough with the phone.
That search you ordered fucked us
for manpower and community relations.
[Sampson] Well, if city hall
wouldn't have swept
the Goodspeed right under the rug...
Not going there.
Hey, scroll the video back?
[De Lackner] Tavio's into it with at least
three other crews we know about.
We should be out shaking them down.
How many of those crews
you know got a sniper on retainer?
You think just 'cause
something happens in a Black neighborhood,
it's gang-related?
If it walks like a thug
and talks like a thug...
There. Let's see that again.
She took the phone.
- You don't say.
- Whatever.
You two can follow up with phone girl.
Everybody else,
shake the hood and see what falls out.
[siren wailing in distance]
[Vanessa] It's a voicemail from Emir.
And you brought that shit here?
These people killed Tavio, Ness.
I know. Okay, Mel? I just...
Tavie, baby.
Why don't you play
with Mommy's tablet, okay?
Just take care of Tavie while I keep low.
I need to get this phone to someone
- who can get us justice.
- Why you?
Who the fuck else?
Huh? People gonna see my baby daddy
and just see another Black gangbanger
gunned down in the street.
If I don't act like
his life meant something,
who the fuck else will?
If you gonna go off caping,
make sure you protect yourself.
Thank you.
Tavie, baby, I'm gonna need you
to stay with Auntie Mel
for a little while, okay?
No. I want to stay with you.
You said I could ride the white horsey.
[Vanessa] [sighs] And you can.
You will. Okay? When I get back,
um, you can
ride the horsey as many times
as you want. But for now,
I'm gonna need you to be a good boy
for Auntie Mel, okay?
- I love you.
- I love you, too.
[car door opens]
I'll call you.
[Ramsey] Bobby,
you told me it was handled.
It was, but Tavio's girlfriend
grabbed his phone
while he's laying there, brains blown.
Now Cross is looking for her
and telling people
Goodspeed was murdered
and Tavio got killed to cover it up.
Now, how could he have known that?
I think he guessing, but...
that boy pretty fucking good
at guessing, if you haven't heard.
If you thinking
of grabbing another one right now,
you need to don't.
No, no, not another one. The last one.
You know Cross, personally?
Never worked a case together,
but mm-hmm, mm-hmm, I know him.
Think I'm gonna have to
get to know him a little better.
get to know everything about him.
Ain't no reason to go fuck with Cross.
Okay? I'll find the phone
and the girl before he does.
All you got to do is press pause
and wait for the Goodspeed shit
to go away.
Vanessa. The girlfriend.
I didn't get an address,
but I know that she works
at the Epheson Beauty Salon.
You need to get me that phone, Bobby.
And if you want those big payouts
to keep rolling in,
then I suggest you be a good little doggy
and stay on your leash.
I'm not one of your little minions.
Get me caught up
and we gonna have a problem.
Oh. He bites.
Like a motherfucker.
[♪ Selena: "Bidi Bidi Bom Bom"]
♪ ♪
[singing along]
Damon.
What is this I found in your backpack?
You got selected to Early Mozart
and you didn't say anything?
Huh?
[Damon] I'm-I'm not gonna do it.
What do you mean you're not gonna do it?
- [quiet, distorted voice] Jannie.
- Who told you you get to decide?
- This isn't up to you.
- [Damon] But I don't want to.
[Nana Mama] You play beautifully.
Why wouldn't you want to take advantage
of such a wonderful opportunity, huh?
I-I just... I just don't.
[Nana Mama and Damon
continue indistinctly]
- Jannie.
- What?
You are very good at that.
You play very well.
I know.
- Where are you?
- I am back here.
[Nana Mama] Either way,
you should have said something.
Don’t have me finding it
at the bottom of your backpack.
Go-go on inside.
It’s time to... time to do your homework.
[scoffs]
[song continuing]
Jannie.
Jannie?
[dramatic music playing]
J... Jannie?
Jannie?
Jannie.
What are you doing out here?
Looking for the man.
What... what man?
The one who was talking to me.
[footsteps approaching]
I come in peace.
They’re not a perfect match, but--
They’re beautiful.
I can only accept this on one condition.
You help me break them in.
Over dinner.
Just the two of us.
Just the two of us sounds great.
- Good.
- [phone chimes, buzzes]
[ominous music playing]
You clipped the wires?
[Nana Mama] What-what the hell
was I supposed to do
with some creep-o
talking to my grandbaby through a camera?
I told you those cameras
were a big mistake.
[Cross] It’s not the cameras. He was here.
People hack these things remotely
all the time, Sugar.
He was here.
1, 1-5, 1-4-7?
January 15, 1:47 p.m.
The date and time of Maria’s death.
- [♪ Cameo: "Word Up!"]
- [vocalizing along]
- [singing along]
- ♪ Start to look and stare ♪
♪ Do you dance...
Ooh, this is my jam.
♪ Quick, mama ♪
♪ Come on, baby, tell me what's the word ♪
♪ Oh, word up ♪
[chuckles]
Mani-pedi?
You’re gonna have to take off the boots.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
♪ Word up...
I want mine by Vanessa, though.
[clicks tongue] I heard she the best.
♪ No matter where you say it...
- She’s not in today.
- Okay.
Well, you know...
when’s she coming back?
♪ Who think you're fly,
there's got to be a reason...
- I don’t know.
- Mm.
You can’t call her?
[sinister music playing]
I tried earlier,
but she wasn't picking up.
Okay. Well, if you had to
get her a message, though,
you know, like, if it was...
life or death,
whereabouts would you look?
[Cross] Stay parked in front of the house.
Call me if you see
anything suspicious.
Anything, all right?
[indistinct radio chatter]
Vega just called.
Phone girl’s name is Vanessa Norris.
Word is she’s crashing
with her sister on W by 15th.
Let’s get over there.
[dramatic music playing]
[influencer] If you don't
want me to post about this,
you’re throwing away free publicity.
Some people do not know how to unplug.
- I think I might be one of those people.
- [laughs]
I don’t know what to do
without a phone in my hand.
You know, back in the day when we
used phones to actually, um, call people,
there used to be
these things called, um...
What was it? Oh, yeah, books.
About yea big, made of paper.
- Oh, you read books?
- Mm-hmm.
- Like, actual, physical books?
- [laughs] I do.
Okay, what’s on your nightstand?
Uh, well, at the moment,
I’m rereading an old favorite.
It's called The Goldfinch.
- By Donna Tartt?
- Mm-hmm.
That’s one of my favorites, too.
- Oh, so you've heard of books?
- [chuckles softly]
- You read, too?
- Yeah. Sometimes even on physical paper.
- Wow.
- Don’t tell anybody.
I don’t want to lose my Gen Y card.
It’ll be our little secret.
[both chuckle]
[Ramsey] After you.
[Shannon chuckles]
Why do they call it Gen Y
and not millennial?
Just, uh, watch your head.
It can be a little, you know, deathly.
- [chuckling]
- Yeah.
Wow.
Oh, I’d love to exhibit
something like this.
You know, I could put you in touch
with the artist’s rep, if you like.
Yeah, the Armada’s not exactly
known for its artistic vision.
No?
My highlight this week was
scoring 180 Rothko knockoff prints
for continental breakfast rooms
nationwide.
[slow, haunting music playing]
[chuckles softly]
So, if the Armada’s not the dream job,
- what is?
- Head curator at the Ritz.
Artistic freedom.
Near-unlimited budget.
A different exhibit
for every location around the world.
- So how do you score that?
- You tell me.
Applied about a dozen times.
I can't get a single interview.
Hmm.
Commentary on
the consumption of death? Or...
ode to Rocky Balboa?
[giggling]
- Is it weird that I really love all this?
- Not at all.
I think it’s normal.
Most people just don’t want to admit that.
People want to be frightened.
Made to feel something.
Our lives are so fucking sanitized--
everything in prepackaged shrink wrap.
Is it any wonder that looking death
right in the face
makes us feel more alive?
More connected?
A photo with the Grim Reaper?
Well, it'd be our pleasure.
[chuckles]
- [video game chirping]
- [door closes]
[Cross] How you doing?
I'm Detective Alex Cross.
I'm here to speak to Vanessa Norris.
I know who you are, Detective Cross.
Vanessa’s not here.
Right. I just need five minutes
of Vanessa's time.
- Vanessa is not here.
- Auntie--
- Not now, baby.
- She’s not in trouble.
Okay? Not with us.
Then why are you looking for her?
We know she has Tavio’s phone.
[Tavie] My game's not working.
Mommy said I could play my game.
That is your mama's tablet.
I don’t know how to fix that shit, Tavie!
Shit. I’m sorry, Tavie.
Sh-Shit. I'm sorry.
Hey, is that Animal Habitat?
I’d know that theme song anywhere.
My kids play it all the time.
No, I could probably help, if you want.
Look, man, show me what you got.
[chuckles]
You're stuck in the desert habitat.
Yeah, I've been there.
See, what you have to do
is change yourself into a tortoise, right?
And then dig under the sand
so you can get out.
Do you know the difference
between a tortoise and a turtle?
Turtle goes in the water.
Mommy read it to me in one of my books.
Really?
You, uh...
you read with Mommy a lot?
Thank you, Detective Cross,
but it’s time for you to go.
Hey.
I really want to help your mom, Tavie.
Can you tell me where she is right now?
Yeah, and when I go see her,
I can ride the white horsey all I want.
[Melanie] Get the fuck out of my house.
- [door closes]
- [indistinct chatter]
Fake-ass cop.
Sis give it up?
Nah. But Vanessa’s kid was in there.
He said something about
riding a white horse
when he goes to see his mom.
Might mean something.
[chuckles] Is that all you got?
You want to give it a shot, John?
You better hope Kayla comes to the rescue.
She’s still tracking Tavio’s phone,
if that ever pops back up.
[lively music playing]
[cash register dings]
Thanks.
♪ Shout, shout, shout, shout, shout ♪
♪ Shout, shout, shut up, shut up...
♪ Shout, shout, shout, shout, shout...
[line ringing]
- [Melanie] Hello?
- Hey, Mel.
- Ness, you okay?
- Yeah, I'm-I'm fine.
[Tavie] When are you coming to get me?
- Tavie, baby. Um, soon.
- [door opens, chimes]
You know? Maybe even tomorrow.
[Melanie] Ness, the cops were here.
They know about the phone.
Everybody is looking for you.
Wherever you are now,
you need to get gone.
Look, yes. No-- [stammers]
Mel, I know, okay?
I’m fine, um...
Look, no one knows where I'm at.
I got to go, okay?
[dramatic music playing]
[door chimes]
Mm. Hey.
What tonight smelling like--
whiskey or gin?
[♪ Trillville: "Neva Eva"]
- ♪ You can't, you can't ♪
- ♪ Get on my level, ho ♪
- ♪ Get on my level,
ho, get on my level, ho ♪
- ♪ It's Trillville ♪
- ♪ Lil Scrappy, it's BME ♪
- ♪ Get on my level, ho,
get on my level, ho ♪
- ♪ Let's go! ♪
- ♪ Get on my level, ho, get
on my level, ho ♪
- ♪ You can neva eva, eva eva, eva eva ♪
- [grunting]
♪ Eva eva, eva eva ♪
- ♪ Get on my level ♪
- ♪ What! ♪
- [sniffing]
- ♪ Get on my level, get on my level ♪
- ♪ What! What! ♪
♪ You can neva eva, eva eva ♪
♪ Eva eva, eva eva, eva eva ♪
- ♪ Get on my level ♪
- ♪ What! ♪
- [shouts]
- ♪ Get on my level, get on my level ♪
- ♪ What! What! ♪
- ♪ Get on my level ♪
- ♪ What! ♪
- [sniffing]
♪ You can neva eva ♪
♪ Eva eva, eva eva...
Get on my level, ho! [grunting]
- Never ever! Never ever!
- [banging]
- [shouting continues indistinctly]
- [song continuing indistinctly]
[line ringing]
[Hightower] You've reached
Tania Hightower
of The Washington Telegram.
Please leave a message.
Hi, um, Mi-Miss Hightower.
My name is Vanessa.
I'm calling because I think
I have something that you should hear.
It's, um...
I-It’s about Emir Goodspeed.
Please give me a call back.
[Damon] What do you mean
she's here? I told you,
I don't want to.
[Nana Mama] It doesn't matter
what you want.
In this house,
you’re gonna get what you need,
like it or not.
[Cross] No. No. Two, nine, two,
zero, one, zero.
I-I need the last 24 hours of footage.
You can’t make me play piano
with some stuffy old white lady.
Damon, that's enough.
Don’t be too hard on him.
Hi, Damon. Aw.
I'm not what you were expecting, am I?
Well, if you’re too scared to play,
it won’t matter who your teacher is.
- So...
- I’m not scared.
No? Huh.
Talented kid who doesn’t
want to hear about the program--
sure sounds like scared to me.
Well... I’m not.
Well, then you should at least ask me
about what
the Early Mozart Institute can do
for you and your future.
Uh-uh. Yeah, that’s what I thought.
You're scared.
No. No, I'm not. We can talk.
[Miss Nancy] Okay.
[phone chimes, buzzes]
All right, mister,
let me see you do your scales.
[distorted voice] Jannie, did you see
the numbers I added to your hopscotch?
[Nana Mama] Jannie? Jannie?
[distorted voice] I wanted to tell you
you're very pretty.
Just like your mommy.
[Nana Mama] Girl, what are you
doing out here?
[piano softly playing in other room]
Is everything all right, sweetie?
Um...
Yeah.
Good. It's all good.
[Miss Nancy] Recognize a true G
when you hear one?
[piano playing continuing]
Damon, your finger positioning--
it's exquisite.
Where'd you learn to do that?
My mom used to teach me.
[Miss Nancy] Let's try this one.
♪ ♪
[Shannon] Mom, it's me.
I know you're in the air, but I...
I couldn't wait
'cause I got a call from the Ritz.
They're bringing me in for an interview.
Call me when you land.
Okay, love you. Bye.
[Ramsey clears throat]
Hi. I just had a meeting on 16th
and I thought I'd...
It sounds like you got some good news.
Yeah, I got-I got an interview.
At the Rit-- at the Ritz.
That's great.
Did... did you...
Make a couple calls?
Maybe.
That's...
- Wow. [laughs]
- Forget it.
I just like to help people
achieve their dreams.
If you want,
I could help with the interview.
Um, prep session,
tomorrow morning, my place?
Hey, I've... I've really
enjoyed hanging out with...
I think it's a little early
for anybody to be
going to anybody else's place.
Wow, uh, sorry, no,
that's not what I meant, at all.
Not that I wouldn't.
I mean, you're gorgeous.
- Uh, sorry, I'm just gonna shut up.
- [laughs]
Yeah. [laughs]
Sorry. Uh...
How about this?
Tomorrow morning,
I'm gonna cook up a whole thing of bacon,
fresh pot of coffee, and you are welcome
to just come by for some harmless,
platonic, very friendly,
um, advice.
- [chuckles softly]
- Okay.
I should, uh...
And you should
get back to work, Ms. Witmer.
[door opens]
[quiet, indistinct radio chatter]
[engine stops]
Now, I know Nana Mama taught you better
than to wear your dirty work shirt
on a date.
- I'm not going.
- Man, stop bullshitting.
You stand that fine-ass woman up,
you'll never get another shot.
Hey, the Southeast gonna pop off
if we don't solve this Goodspeed case.
Oh, you gonna pop off,
you don't get some downtime.
Come on, now. You ain't never been
the cop that couldn't turn off at home.
Say what it really is.
I got a psycho threatening my family.
Damon's out of pocket.
I put a gun on Jannie.
And that was before this dude
started talking to her through the camera.
- Kids are resilient.
- Come on, John,
what am I supposed to tell them?
"Don't go outside or the lunatic who
murdered your mom is gonna get you"?
"Oh, but also don't be so scared
that you get PTSD"?
In case of emergency, you're supposed
to put your oxygen mask on first, Sugar.
You need to get some leg.
I need to find out
who's fucking with my family.
And we will.
Look, I called in every favor I got.
Got the DNA from Maria's scarf
moved to the top of the list.
All right?
Now, get that off your mind
and get out the house.
Look, I'll watch the rugrats.
Cookies, milk.
Little bedtime story. And maybe...
...get 'em up in the morning?
Hey, it's not like that.
It's about to be like that.
- [laughs]
- I know what it means when a woman
invites you over to cook for you.
- Nah, stop.
- No, I ain't gonna stop. You need to start
walking up them steps
and put on some smell-good.
- Smell-good?
- Yeah.
What you know about smell-good?
You smell like mothballs and Old Spice.
[both laughing]
[car passes in distance]
[pensive music playing]
[phone rings]
- Hello?
- [Hightower] Vanessa.
Tania Hightower.
You said you had something for me.
Yes, I, um, I'm Tavio Lemmons' girlfriend.
I have his cell phone.
I think he was killed
for something on there.
A voicemail from Emir Goodspeed.
I know this is all connected somehow,
- but, um--
- Where are you?
Why do you think this woman
is still in D.C.?
You ever see those
Modern Textbook workbooks?
Yeah, my mother used to
make me do them all summer.
- Eh?
- Mm-hmm.
Maria did the same with our kids.
An hour a day, every day, no excuses.
I saw a pile of those books
at Vanessa's sister's house.
Every page was filled in.
A mom like that-- I-I can't see her
going too far from her kid,
no matter how scared she is.
No, it's just...
[♪ SWV: "Weak"]
[laughs]
- This song. Dang.
- Yeah.
Junior high dance.
[laughs]
Okay.
[both laughing]
Yeah...
I got this raging crush on this older man.
And on the very last song,
finally get up the nerve
to ask him to dance.
♪ I want to stay...
You probably don't even remember that.
You wore a green dress.
Little bit of shoulder
showing out the top.
♪ On my mind, I can't figure out...
As I recall...
the lights came up early.
So, you still owe me half a dance,
Detective Alex Cross.
♪ I get so weak in the knees...
May I? [laughs]
♪ I lose all control and something...
[chuckles]
♪ In a daze, your love's so amazing ♪
♪ It's not a phase,
I want you to stay with me...
You know, I always wondered...
♪ My pride, your love is so sweet...
...what happened if...
the lights never came up?
♪ Can't explain why your love ♪
♪ It makes me weak ♪
♪ Time after time after time ♪
♪ I try to fight it ♪
♪ But your love is strong ♪
♪ It keeps on holding on ♪
♪ Resistance is down
when you're around ♪
♪ Cries fading...
[Cross] W-Wait, wait.
Hold-- Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Uh...
I'm sorry.
I'm s-I'm sorry, I-I thought--
I thought I was ready, um...
♪ Beating triple time ♪
♪ With thoughts of loving you
on my mind...
[chuckles] I can wait.
♪ I can't figure out just what to do...
Baby, I can wait.
- ♪ Cure is you ♪
- [door closes]
[sighs]
[phone buzzes]
- [Cross] Hello?
- Well, hello there.
- Say, "Kayla, you're my hero."
- What?
Tavio Lemmons' phone
pinged six minutes ago.
Where?
[keypad beeps]
[hip-hop music playing in distance]
[neighbors shouting]
[car alarm blaring in distance]
- [Bobby] You ever wonder...
- [gasps]
- why they call it a "deadbolt"?
- [whimpering]
[suspenseful music playing]
You got the kids meal...
[imitates gunshots]
...I got the toy.
[whimpering]
Please don't hurt me.
Okay.
Punch in Tavio code.
And we can end
our little acquaintance
right here.
No harm, no foul.
[grunting]
[screams]
No!
[screams, grunts]
[crying]
[screams]
Let's put on some tunes.
[indistinct conversations]
[Kayla] Mmm.
You look nice.
You smell nice, too.
[chuckles]
Whoever she is, tell her I'm sorry
I interrupted her evening.
Can... [sighs]
Tavio's phone is back on?
It was, but only long enough
to ping one tower.
It pings another, we'll be able
to get a more precise location,
but for now...
we know it's somewhere in this radius.
- [Sampson] D.C.?
- Mm-hmm.
If she was smart,
she'd have skipped town by now.
Or, shit, could be
some junkie turned it on.
Or there is no white horsey.
Or we're chasing our tails
based on some kid's imagination.
[echoing] ...kid's imagination.
That's what Vanessa's been doing.
She's thinking like a kid.
You think the stress made her regress
to childlike thought patterns.
Well, it makes sense, right?
Her whole world's been turned upside down.
She'd crave familiarity, routine.
She'd be drawn to-to places
that she recognizes.
- That's what would make her feel safe.
- [Sampson] Mm.
Her work is here, right?
Tavie's daycare is here.
Mm-hmm. And I bet she buys
Tavie's workbooks right there
after picking him up from day care.
- Paradise Motel is just down the block
from that drugstore.
- Yep.
Last time I was there, you know
what I saw sitting right out front?
[haunting music playing]
[♪ Gloria Gaynor: "I Will Survive"]
[Vanessa screams]
[choking]
[screams]
[gasping]
[coughing]
Eventually...
this playlist here gonna run out.
If you haven't given
me what I need by then,
let's just say that only one of us
will survive.
Help!
[♪ The Tokens: "The Lion Sleeps Tonight"]
Oh.
Oh, that's the... stuff.
That's the stuff.
[chuckles] This for you, Pappy.
This for you.
[laughing]
♪ In the jungle, the mighty jungle ♪
♪ The lion sleeps tonight ♪
♪ In the jungle, the mighty jungle... ♪
[sinister music plays]
[chuckles] Anybody ever
use their real name?
Have you seen this woman?
Oh, yeah. Little cute joint. 222.
Deuces wild.
You're the one in charge here, Vanessa.
You want this train to stop?
Chug-a-chug-a-chug-a
chug-a-chug-a-chug-a...
Choo-choo! Choo... choo!
Pull the emergency brake,
and open
the motherfucking phone.
I don't know the code.
Wait, wait, please.
Please, I think I do remember.
I-I can remember if I see it.
[ominous music playing]
Don't fuck this up.
- [radio chirps]
- [Sampson in distance] AB-2 to Control.
On scene at the Paradise Motel.
[speaks indistinctly]
[control] Roger that, AB-2.
[continues indistinctly]
[Sampson] Stand by for now.
We'll let you know if we need backup.
You stupid motherfuck...
Who the fuck'd you send this to?
- Who is Baby Ma...
- [phone chimes]
You sent it to yourself.
[chuckles]
[indistinct radio chatter]
[dog barking in distance]
Oh, shit.
What they's looking for.
Help!
- Help, somebody!
- [Sampson] Yo, that's up here!
[whimpers] Please.
- [gasping]
- Stupid motherfucker.
- [Cross] Shit, you heard that?
- [Sampson] Yeah, yeah, yeah, let's go.
[Cross] Vanessa Norris!
- Oh, shit.
- Oh, shit!
Stand back. Stand back!
[gasping]
Hey, hey.
Can you tell me who did this?
Tell-tell me who did this.
Vanessa, stay with me. Stay with me.
[Sampson] 10-14, civilian down.
10-14.
I need a bus at Paradise Motel.
Room 222.
[indistinct chatter]
[Massey] An innocent woman is dead.
We've got no phone, no ID on the killer.
[sighs] This investigation is fucked.
- We're all fucked.
- Yeah.
- [phone rings, buzzes]
- That about covers it.
Fuck.
[siren wails]
Kayla said that Tavio's phone
sent one outgoing message
before it went dead.
Vanessa-- I think
she forwarded the evidence.
- To who?
- Herself.
Goddamn it, Cross,
what the fuck happened here?
She had a kid. You know that?
She was trying to do the right thing
and she thought I could help her.
Maybe you can. I need a favor.
Give me two hours
before you break anything.
Ju-Just two hours.
Oh, no, no, I do not do favors.
You still do deals?
She stumbled onto
something big, didn't she?
I want three questions on background
and exclusive on any story
that comes out of this investigation.
Do you believe
Emir Goodspeed was murdered?
Yes.
Do you believe Tavio and Vanessa's deaths
- were linked to said murder?
- Yes.
Fuck.
Do you have a suspect?
No.
Two hours till this
hits the paper's online feed.
How long until
it hits the streets, though?
[video game chirping]
Hey, Tavie.
You remember me?
Auntie Mel said not to tell you anything.
Oh, that's... that's fine, man,
that's fine.
I don't want to get you in trouble.
Um, I-I came to tell you
that I found a new trick for your game.
You don't have to tell me anything.
I can just show you.
My kids, uh, they found a secret code
for an underwater habitat.
[elephant trumpets]
If I can just remember the code.
There you go.
Are you still trying to help my mom?
Tavie...
...it's not gonna be a good day.
It's not gonna be good for a minute.
Why?
That... that-that doesn't matter. Okay?
The only thing that matters
is that you know
everything you need to deal with bad stuff
is inside you.
You hear me?
I can see it.
Superhuman strength.
Mm. Mm!
Let me see, let me see. Mm, mm.
Let me see. Mm. Superhuman.
You got courage.
It's in you.
- And do you know why?
- Why?
Because Mommy and Daddy put it there.
They made you a superhero, Tavie.
But on the inside. Hmm?
Right?
[Melanie speaking indistinctly
in distance]
Tavie, hey...
You're a superhero.
I want you to say it.
Say, "I'm a superhero."
I'm a superhero?
That's right. You can handle anything.
All right? Say it. Say, "I'm a superhero."
- I'm a superhero.
- Superhero. Say it.
- I'm a superhero. I'm a superhero.
- Say, it yeah, I'm a superhero.
- I'm a superhero.
- Get away from him!
- Get away!
- I'm a superhero.
- Say it, Tavie.
- Get away from him.
- Say it,
- Tavie, say it, say it.
- Get your fucking hands off of him!
[crying] Come on, Tavie.
You're a superhero.
[dramatic music playing]
You had to.
Did we get it?
[Emir on recording] Tavio, it's me.
I went to that dude's house
for a date,
but something isn't right, man.
I'm all fucked up
and I didn't touch anything.
He did something. I need you to pull up.
I'm at 41 Price Street.
[percussive music playing]
[doorbell rings]
[doorbell rings again]
[lock clicks]
[both chuckle]
Shannon.
Glad you decided to come.
Please.
[clears throat]
[lock clicks]
- This place is beautiful.
- Thanks.
Probably too much house for one guy,
but, uh, what can I say?
I love the history. Come on in.
So, when is the interview?
Uh, 2:30.
Oh.
- I'm dying.
- [chuckles]
Couldn't even sleep last night.
Please don't be nervous.
You're gonna be...
You're gonna be great.
Mimosa?
No, thanks. I got to stay sharp.
[soft chuckle]
I'm not that kind of guy, Shannon.
I-I know. I...
No, no, it's okay.
You're right to be careful.
There's a lot of sickos out there.
And the thing is, it's not the mimosas
that you should be worried about.
It's the hand sanitizer.
[both chuckle]
- What?
- You're a germophobe, aren't you?
You try to hide it,
but you've got a bottle
in your purse right now.
And you keep a bottle
on your desk at work.
And they're all over your apartment.
Uh...
How do you know that?
Because I did my homework, Shannon.
And I knew that
if I put a little by the door,
you'd take it. Reflex.
Oh, whoa, whoa. Easy.
You feeling a little fuzzy?
That's the fentanyl.
Did you know that it absorbs
right through the skin?
- Go from...
- Whoa, whoa, whoa.
I like that fight. [laughs]
[breathing shakily]
People know where I am. My mom...
My... mom...
You should call her
before things get out of hand.
- [dialing]
- [line ringing]
- [phone ringing]
- Sorry.
Shan?
What's wrong, baby?
Do you need Mommy?
Then I'll be right there.
Oopsie.
Shannon? Hey.
Shannon.
[♪ DENM & Landon McNamara: "Lose Myself"]
Hello, Aileen.
♪ Starting to lose myself ♪
♪ Think I could use some help,
but they don't see me ♪
♪ Getting used to this feeling ♪
♪ Oh, why, oh, why ♪
Next time on Cross...
I need a warrant, please.
[Shannon] What do you want from me?
One step at a time.
[Sampson] The DNA results
from the hair you found
on Maria's scarf came in.
I want a name, John.
Someone from my past is out to get me.
[elevator bell dings]
I don't know who,
but I'm doing
everything I can to find out.
Help!
[♪ DENM & Landon McNamara: "Lose Myself"]
♪ Tight 'cause I might ♪
♪ Just do anything ♪
♪ But I'll fight all night ♪
♪ No, I won't give up easily ♪
♪ Starting to lose myself ♪
♪ Think I could use some help,
but they don't see me ♪
♪ Getting used to this feeling ♪
♪ Starting to lose myself ♪
♪ Think I could use some help,
but they don't see me ♪
♪ Getting used to this feeling ♪
♪ My girl caught me
talking to myself again ♪
♪ Mind-numbing,
just what goes on in my head ♪
♪ I told her that
even if I could express ♪
♪ It all falls on deaf ears ♪